[all] (Host-specific APIs) Referencing the host-specific page and removing duplicate content (#2050)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/excel-add-ins-core-concepts.md

---
title: Fundamental programming concepts with the Excel JavaScript API
description: 'Use the Excel JavaScript API to build add-ins for Excel.'
ms.date: 07/28/2020
localization_priority: Priority
---

# Fundamental programming concepts with the Excel JavaScript API

This article describes how to use the [Excel JavaScript API](../reference/overview/excel-add-ins-reference-overview.md) to build add-ins for Excel 2016 or later. It introduces core concepts that are fundamental to using the API and provides guidance for performing specific tasks such as reading or writing to a large range, updating all cells in range, and more.

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > Please read [Using the host-specific API model](../develop/host-specific-api-model.md) to learn about the asynchronous nature of the Excel APIs and how they work with the workbook.  

Reviewer: See or Read...
```suggestion
> See [Using the host-specific API model](../develop/host-specific-api-model.md) to learn about the asynchronous nature of the Excel APIs and how they work with the workbook.  
```

> > Please read [Using the host-specific API model](../develop/host-specific-api-model.md) to learn about how the asynchronous nature of the Excel APIs and how they work with the workbook.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Please read [Using the host-specific API model](../develop/host-specific-api-model.md) to learn about the asynchronous nature of the Excel APIs and how they work with the workbook.  
```

    var chart = sheet.charts.add(Excel.ChartType.columnStacked, sheet.getRange("B3:C5"));
    chart.top = 100;
    return context.sync();
});
```

Running this sample on the worksheet with the previous table creates the following chart:

![A column chart showing quantities of three items from the previous sales record.](../images/excel-overview-chart-sample.png)

## Run options

`Excel.run` has an overload that takes in a [RunOptions](/javascript/api/excel/excel.runoptions) object. This contains a set of properties that affect platform behavior when the function runs. The following property is currently supported:

* `delayForCellEdit`: Determines whether Excel delays the batch request until the user exits cell edit mode. When **true**, the batch request is delayed and runs when the user exits cell edit mode. When **false**, the batch request automatically fails if the user is in cell edit mode (causing an error to reach the user). The default behavior with no `delayForCellEdit` property specified is equivalent to when it is **false**.

```js
Excel.run({ delayForCellEdit: true }, function (context) { ... })
```

## null or blank property values

> `null` and empty strings have special implications in the Excel JavaScript APIs. There are used to represent empty cells, no formatting, or default values. This section details the use of `null` and empty string when getting and setting properties.

Reviewer: Not sure about my suggestion but original seems incorrect.
```suggestion
`null` and empty strings have special implications in the Excel JavaScript APIs. They're used to represent empty cells, no formatting, or default values. This section details the use of `null` and empty string when getting and setting properties.
```

Formatting properties such as `size` and `color` will contain `null` values in the response when different values exist in the specified range. For example, if you retrieve a range and load its `format.font.color` property:

> * If all cells in the range have the same font color, `range.format.font.color` specifies that color.

Reviewer: Just curious about the change from `-` to `*` since the output should be the same...?

Author: The docs.microsoft.com VS Code extension I have flags `-` as a warning. I don't really know why, but who am I to argue with a yellow line?

Reviewer: I don't even know what to say to that because my extension recommends a dash instead of an asterisk...lol.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/28541963/88859433-94d93900-d1ae-11ea-8f2e-68ef726c9d8b.png)

Author: Great... Well, they render correctly and that's the important thing. I'll stop changing bulleted lists in existing articles.

Reviewer: The [guidance in the contributor guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/contribute/markdown-reference#bulleted-list) is to use the same notation consistently in an article. Seems like there's no preference between `-` and `*`.

range.formula = [['', '', '=Rand()']];
```

## Requirement sets

Requirement sets are named groups of API members. An Office Add-in can perform a runtime check or use requirement sets specified in the manifest to determine whether an Office host supports the APIs that the add-in needs. To identify the specific requirement sets that are available on each supported platform, see [Excel JavaScript API requirement sets](../reference/requirement-sets/excel-api-requirement-sets.md).

### Checking for requirement set support at runtime

The following code sample shows how to determine whether the host application where the add-in is running supports the specified API requirement set.

```js
if (Office.context.requirements.isSetSupported('ExcelApi', '1.3')) {
  /// perform actions
}
else {
  /// provide alternate flow/logic
}
```

### Defining requirement set support in the manifest

> You can use the [Requirements element](../reference/manifest/requirements.md) in the add-in manifest to specify the minimal requirement sets and/or API methods that your add-in requires to activate. If the Office host or platform doesn't support the requirement sets or API methods that are specified in the `Requirements` element of the manifest, the add-in won't run in that host or platform, and won't display in the list of add-ins that are shown in **My Add-ins**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the [Requirements element](../reference/manifest/requirements.md) in the add-in manifest to specify the minimal requirement sets and/or API methods that your add-in requires to activate. If the Office host or platform doesn't support the requirement sets or API methods that are specified in the `Requirements` element of the manifest, the add-in won't run in that host or platform, and it won't display in the list of add-ins that are shown in **My Add-ins**.
```
